- [Instructor] Auto-configuration
is the heart of Spring Boot.
It's what actually is the magic behind it all
that makes it all work out.
You notice that we got a web application in Tomcat
up and running without doing any configuration.
And that's because of auto-config.
Now we're going to go into a lot more detailed down the road
with all of this auto-configuration,
but I at least want to give you some cursory understanding
as we get started in this course.
The EnableAutoConfiguration annotation
is a powerful construct that drives much of Spring Boot.
It is what allows for configuration classes
to be dynamically scanned into the application context.
It's based off JARs hat are loaded on the class path.
Usually via Maven or Gradle dependency management.
It's not always the case though,
that is the JARs in the class path,
and again, we'll go into that in a lot more detail.
Ultimately it's driven off the spring.factories file
that's in the medic if directory of each jar
that gets loaded into the application itself
via one of those dependency management systems.
In addition, you can control the order of auto-configuration
through a couple of annotations,
the AutoConfigureBefore, and the AutoConfigureAfter.
Then you may be asking,
I never saw enable auto-configuration,
at Spring Boot application is actually a stereotype of this
so it includes this annotation as part of it.
In addition to auto-configuration,
conditional loading is what helps Spring Boot
do what it does.
Some conditional loading allows for configurations
to only be loaded when and if
there are classes specifically on the class path,
such as the @ConditionalOnclass annotation,
you can also drive configuration off the presence of a bean
being defined in the application context,
using the @ConditionalOnBean annotation.
Furthermore, you can drive configuration
based on specific properties being defined
with the @ConditionalOnProperty annotation.
And once again, you can drive configurations
based on missing bean or class or property
through the @ConditionalOnMissing annotations.
And I've given you the bean example here.
Now you may be wondering, I didn't see any of these.
These are built into the dependencies themselves,
and as we get through this course,
we're going to build a Spring Boot starter,
and these values are very useful
if you ever find yourself building starters.
Or if you're troubleshooting,
while your configuration is doing what it's doing.
Properties are also a big part of the default configuration
for Spring Boot.
Many of the projects include pre-configured default
properties for the auto-configuration classes themselves.
There's an annotation to load these properties
called @EnabledConfigurationProperties
and these specifies these default property sets.
For instance, if you bring H two onto the class path,
it will have enough configuration,
and configuration properties
to load an embedded H two database into your application.
And we're going to show you that
as we go through the course.
Now, the thing to note about properties
is that they can always, and I mean always be overridden
to the way you can figure Spring itself.
Now, there is many conditionals
that we aren't going to talk about in detail,
but I want to run through all of them in a high level.
We talked about the bean, and class, and the missing bean
and the missing class conditionals.
Again, we also talked about the property-based conditionals.
What we haven't talked about
is that they're application type based conditionals.
You can define if it's a web application
or not a web application
through conditional annotations,
you can also use resource-based annotations,
which essentially are files, but not always,
but usually a resource is used
when we're pointing to a file on the file system.
Finally, there's expression based conditionals
that allow you to use the spring expression language
to drive conditional expectations of your class
and what gets loaded during auto-configuration.
Now all of this is what makes Spring Boot do what it does,
and actually it's what provides "magic behind Spring Boot".